AdmissionWebhookMatchConditions feature documentation (#40058)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers.md

The `matchPolicy` for an admission webhooks defaults to `Equivalent`.

### Matching requests: `matchConditions`

{{< feature-state state="alpha" for_k8s_version="v1.27" >}}

{{< note >}}

> Match conditions requires the [featuregate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)

Reviewer: Grammar nit:

```suggestion
Match conditions require the [featuregate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
```

Or maybe "Use of matchConditions requires" ?

> Use of matchConditions requires the [featuregate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use of `matchConditions` requires the [featuregate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
```

`AdmissionWebhookMatchConditions` to be explicitly enabled on the kube-apiserver before this feature can be used.
{{< /note >}}

> Match conditions can be added to webhooks for fine-grained request filtering (in conjunction with
> match rules, objectSelectors and namespaceSelectors) using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can define _match conditions_for webhooks if you need fine-grained request filtering. These conditions
are useful if you find that match rules, `objectSelectors` and `namespaceSelectors` still doesn't provide the
filtering you want over when to call out over HTTP. Match conditions are
```

[CEL expressions](/docs/reference/using-api/cel/). All match conditions must evaluate to true for
the webhook to be called.

> Here are a couple examples of match conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example with a couple match conditions:
```

(apologies for the grammar nits, feel free to apply or ignore as you see fit)

  version may be converted based on the [matchPolicy](#matching-requests-matchpolicy).
- `oldObject` - The existing object. The value is null for CREATE requests.
- `request` - The request portion of the [AdmissionReview](#request), excluding `object` and `oldObject`.
- `authorizer` - A CEL Authorizer. May be used to perform authorization checks for the principal
  (authenticated user) of the request. See
  [Authz](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/apiserver/pkg/cel/library#Authz) in the Kubernetes CEL library
  documentation for more details.
- `authorizer.requestResource` - A shortcut for an authorization check configured with the request
  resource (group, resource, (subresource), namespace, name).

For more information on CEL expressions, refer to the
[Common Expression Language in Kubernetes reference](/docs/reference/using-api/cel/).

In the event of an error evaluating a match condition the webhook is never called. Whether to reject
the request is determined as follows:

1. If **any** match condition evaluated to `false` (regardless of other errors), the API server skips the webhook.
2. Otherwise:

>     - for [`failurePolicy: Fail`](#failure-policy), reject the request (without calling the webhook).
>     - for [`failurePolicy: Ignore`](#failure-policy), proceed with the request but skip the webhook.

Reviewer 3: Nit: Avoid 4-spaces indentation when possible. Sometimes the YAML parser may treat it as a code snippet.

```suggestion
   - for [`failurePolicy: Fail`](#failure-policy), reject the request (without calling the webhook).
   - for [`failurePolicy: Ignore`](#failure-policy), proceed with the request but skip the webhook.
```

The `matchPolicy` for an admission webhooks defaults to `Equivalent`.

### Matching requests: matchConditions

{{< feature-state state="alpha" for_k8s_version="v1.27" >}}

{{< note >}}
Match conditions requires the [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
`AdmissionWebhookMatchConditions` to be explicitly enabled before this feature can be used.
{{< /note >}}

> Match conditions can be added to webhooks for additional fine-grained request filtering using

Reviewer 4: Maybe mention they can only be used for negative matching after a request was already matched by rules

Author: Done.

    expression: 'authorizer.group('admissionregistration.k8s.io').resource('validatingwebhookconfigurations').name('my-webhook.example.com').check('breakglass').denied()'
```

Match conditions have access to the following CEL variables:

- `object` - The object from the incoming request. The value is null for DELETE requests. The object
  version may be converted based on the [matchPolicy](#matching-requests-matchpolicy). Equivalent to `request.object`.
- `oldObject` - The existing object. The value is null for CREATE requests. Equivalent to `request.oldObject`.
- `request` - The request portion of the [AdmissionReview](#request)
- `authorizer` - A CEL Authorizer. May be used to perform authorization checks for the principal
  (authenticated user) of the request. See https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/apiserver/pkg/cel/library#Authz
  for more details.
- `authorizer.requestResource` - A CEL ResourceCheck constructed from the 'authorizer' and
  configured with the request resource (group, resource, (subresource), namespace, name).

For more information on CEL expressions, refer to the
[Common Expression Language in Kubernetes reference](/docs/reference/using-api/cel/).

> In the event of an error evaluating a match condition the webhook is never called. Whether to reject

Reviewer 4: `In the event of an error evaluating a match condition the webhook is never called` maybe change sentence to just "In the event of an error evaluating a match condition whether to reject the request is determined as follows:"

Author: I like specifically identifying that if there is an error the webhook is never called. I think it's useful as a starting point, and then the question is just whether the request is rejected or not.

Any specific reason you're suggesting dropping that point?

Reviewer 5: I agree with Tim

Reviewer 2: I agree with Tim :wink:

the request is determined as follows:

> 1. If ANY match condition evaluated to `false` without an error, skip the webhook.

Reviewer 4: If If ANY match condition evaluated to `false` regardless of errors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. If **any** match condition evaluated to `false` without an error, the API server skips the webhook.
   Request processing continues as if the admission webhook hadn't been defined.
```

Author: Done.

The `matchPolicy` for an admission webhooks defaults to `Equivalent`.

> ### Matching requests: matchConditions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Matching requests: `matchConditions`
```

{{< feature-state state="alpha" for_k8s_version="v1.27" >}}

{{< note >}}
Match conditions requires the [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
`AdmissionWebhookMatchConditions` to be explicitly enabled before this feature can be used.
{{< /note >}}

Match conditions can be added to webhooks for fine-grained request filtering (in conjunction with
match rules, objectSelectors and namespaceSelectors) using
[CEL expressions](/docs/reference/using-api/cel/). All match conditions must evaluate to true for
the webhook to be called.

Here are a couple examples of match conditions:

```yaml
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1
kind: ValidatingWebhookConfiguration
webhooks:
- name: my-webhook.example.com
  matchPolicy: Equivalent
  rules:
  - operations: ['CREATE','UPDATE']
    apiGroups: ['*']
    apiVersions: ['*']
    resources: ['*']
  matchConditions:
  - name: 'exclude-leases' # Each match condition must have a unique name

>     expression: '!(request.resource.group == "coordination.k8s.io" && resource.resource == "leases")' # Match non-lease resources.

Reviewer 2: How about adding a `failurePolicy` too?

  - name: 'exclude-kubelet-requests'
    expression: '!("system:nodes" in request.userInfo.groups)' # Match requests made by non-node users.
  - name: 'breakglass'

>     # Skip requests by users with the 'breakglass' permission on my-webhook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Skip requests made by users authorized to 'breakglass' this webhook.
    # The 'breakglass' API verb does not need to exist outside this check.
```

>     expression: 'authorizer.group('admissionregistration.k8s.io').resource('validatingwebhookconfigurations').name('my-webhook.example.com').check('breakglass').denied()'

Reviewer 2: If feasible, and this is a valid manifest, make this use a `{{< codenew >}}` shortcode.

```

Match conditions have access to the following CEL variables:

- `object` - The object from the incoming request. The value is null for DELETE requests. The object
  version may be converted based on the [matchPolicy](#matching-requests-matchpolicy). Equivalent to `request.object`.
- `oldObject` - The existing object. The value is null for CREATE requests. Equivalent to `request.oldObject`.
- `request` - The request portion of the [AdmissionReview](#request)
- `authorizer` - A CEL Authorizer. May be used to perform authorization checks for the principal

>   (authenticated user) of the request. See https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/apiserver/pkg/cel/library#Authz
>   for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  (authenticated user) of the request. See [authz](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/apiserver/pkg/cel/library#Authz)
  in the Kubernetes CEL library documentation for more details.
```

> - `authorizer.requestResource` - A CEL ResourceCheck constructed from the 'authorizer' and

Reviewer 2: What's a ResourceCheck?

Author: internal type name. How's this instead: "A shortcut for an authorization check configured with the request
  resource (group, resource, (subresource), namespace, name)."

  configured with the request resource (group, resource, (subresource), namespace, name).

For more information on CEL expressions, refer to the
[Common Expression Language in Kubernetes reference](/docs/reference/using-api/cel/).

In the event of an error evaluating a match condition the webhook is never called. Whether to reject
the request is determined as follows:

> 1. If ANY match condition evaluated to `false` (regardless of other errors), skip the webhook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. If **any** match condition evaluated to `false` (regardless of other errors), skip the webhook.
```

2. Otherwise:

>     - If [`failurePolicy=Fail`](#failure-policy), reject the request (without calling the webhook).
>     - If [`failurePolicy=Ignore`](#failure-policy), proceed with the request but skip the webhook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - for [`failurePolicy: Fail`](#failure-policy), reject the request (without calling the webhook).
    - for [`failurePolicy: Ignore`](#failure-policy), proceed with the request but skip the webhook.
```
